.TH bitfield 3 "JULY 1, 2016" "bitfield 0.5.0" "Bitfield manipulation library"
.SH NAME
bitfield \- API for manipulating bit arrays.
.SH DESCRIPTION
A library of functions for creating, modifying and destroying bit arrays, i.e. 
series of zeroes and ones spread across an array of storage units.
.SH DATA TYPES
.B struct bitfield
is a data structure for storing bit arrays. It has two elements: an array of 
unsigned long integers \fIfield\fR for storing the values of bits and an 
integer \fIsize\fR for storing the number of bits in the array.
.SH EXPORTS
.LP
.B
bf2long()
.br
.RS
.LP
converts the bit array to an array of long integers. For details, see manual 
page for
.BR bf2long (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bf2str()
.br
.RS
.LP
converts a bitfield into a character string of ones and zeroes. For details, 
see manual page for
.BR bf2str (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bf2str_ip()
.br
.RS
.LP
converts a bitfield into a character string of ones and zeroes "in-place". For 
details, see manual page for
.BR bf2str_ip (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfand()
.br
.RS
.LP
performs bitwise AND over a pair of bitfields. For details, see manual page for
.BR bfand (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfcat()
.br
.RS
.LP
concatenates two bitfields into one. For details, see manual page for
.BR bfcat (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfclearall()
.br
.RS
.LP
clears all bits in a bitfield (i.e. fills it with zeroes). For details, see 
manual page for
.BR bfclearall (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfclearbit()
.br
.RS
.LP
clears one bit in a bitfield. For details, see manual page for
.BR bfclearbit (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfclone()
.br
.RS
.LP
creates a copy of an existing bitfield. For details, see manual page for
.BR bfclone (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfcmp()
.br
.RS
.LP
compares two bitfields and returns 0 if same or non-zero and error message if 
different. For details, see manual page for
.BR bfcmp (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfcpy()
.br
.RS
.LP
copies the contents of a bitfield into another pre-existing bitfield. For 
details, see manual page for
.BR bfcpy (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfdel()
.br
.RS
.LP
destroys a bitfield structure and frees memory. For details, see manual page for
.BR bfdel (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfgetbit()
.br
.RS
.LP
checks the state of a bit in a bitfield. For details, see manual page for
.BR bfgetbit (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfhamming()
.br
.RS
.LP
counts the Humming distance between two bitfields. For details, see manual page
for
.BR bfhamming (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfisempty()
.br
.RS
.LP
checks whether all bit of an array are unset. For details, see manual page for
.BR bfisempty (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfnew()
.br
.RS
.LP
creates an empty bitfield structure, and returns a pointer to it. For details, 
see manual page for
.BR bfnew (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfnew_ones()
.br
.RS
.LP
creates a bitfield structure, sets all its bits to true with and returns a 
pointer to it. For details, see manual page for
.BR bfnew_ones (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfnew_quick()
.br
.RS
.LP
creates a [possibly non-empty] bitfield structure and returns a pointer to it. 
For details, see manual page for
.BR bfnew_quick (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfnormalize()
.br
.RS
.LP
treats a bitfield as a closed loop, shifts it to produce the smallest binary 
number and return the result in new bitfield. For details, see manual page for
.BR bfnormalize (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfnot()
.br
.RS
.LP
reverses all bits in a bitfield and return the result in new bitfield. For 
details, see manual page for
.BR bfnot (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfnot_ip()
.br
.RS
.LP
reverses all bits in a bitfield. For details, see manual page for
.BR bfnot_ip (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfor()
.br
.RS
.LP
performs bitwise inclusive OR over a pair of bitfields. For details, see manual 
page for
.BR bfor (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfpopcount()
.br
.RS
.LP
counts the set bits in a bit array. For details, see manual page for
.BR bfpopcount (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfpos()
.br
.RS
.LP
checks whether an array of bits contains a sub-array. For details, see manual 
page for
.BR bfpos (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfprint()
.br
.RS
.LP
prints a bitfield as a series of ones and zeroes. For details, see manual page 
for
.BR bfprint (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfresize()
.br
.RS
.LP
resizes an existing bitfield. For details, see manual page for
.BR bfresize (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfrev()
.br
.RS
.LP
reverses the order of bits of a bitfield and returns the result in new 
bitfield. For details, see manual page for
.BR bfrev (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfrev_ip()
.br
.RS
.LP
reverses the order of bits of an existing bitfield. For details, see manual 
page for
.BR bfrev_ip (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfsetall()
.br
.RS
.LP
sets all bits in a bitfield (i.e. fills it with ones). For details, see manual 
page for
.BR bfsetall (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfsetbit()
.br
.RS
.LP
sets one bit in a bitfield. For details, see manual page for
.BR bfsetbit (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfshift()
.br
.RS
.LP
circular-shifts the contents of a bitfield and returns the result in new 
bitfield. For details, see manual page for
.BR bfshift (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfshift_ip()
.br
.RS
.LP
circular-shifts the contents of a bitfield. For details, see manual page for
.BR bfshift_ip (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfsize()
.br
.RS
.LP
obtains the number of bits of a bitfield. For details, see manual page for
.BR bfsize (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfsub()
.br
.RS
.LP
extracts a sub-bitfield from a bitfield. For details, see manual page for
.BR bfsub (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bftogglebit()
.br
.RS
.LP
toggles (i.e. reverses the state of) a bit in a bitfield. For details, see 
manual page for
.BR bftogglebit (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
bfxor()
.br
.RS
.LP
performs bitwise exclusive OR over a pair of bitfields. For details, see manual 
page for
.BR bfxor (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
long2bf()
.br
.RS
.LP
converts an array of long integers into a bitfield structure. For details, see 
manual page for
.BR long2bf (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
str2bf()
.br
.RS
.LP
converts a character string of ones and zeroes into a bitfield. For details, 
see manual page for
.BR str2bf (3).
.RE
.LP
.B
str2bf_ip()
.br
.RS
.LP
converts a character string of ones and zeroes into a bitfield "in-place". For 
details, see manual page for
.BR str2bf_ip (3).
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Vitalie CIUBOTARU

